terrorism/war: farc and eln ceasefir reduc risk of insurg attack on infrastructur in colombia in the one-month outlook.
22 may 2014
colombian insurg group, the fuerza armada revolucionaria de colombia (farc) and Ejército de Liberación nacion (eln), announc a ceasefir between 20 and 28 may on 16 may. the cessat of offens oper against the arm forc and econom infrastructur has been call to facilit the upcom presidenti elect on 25 may. given that both rebel group see the incumb, presid juan manuel santo, as their best chanc for a peac deal, this unilater ceasefir is probabl aim at boost his campaign. howev, santo' govern has declin to reciproc, impli that the ceasefir will be unilater and militari oper against the insurg group will continu. the announc come against the backdrop of an agreement, also on 16 may, between the colombian govern and th e farc on the issu of illeg drug - the third of six topic on the negoti agenda in the ongo peac talk. sinc the peac talk began in cuba in novemb 2012, the two parti have also reach agreement on agrarian reform and polit particip. the parti will now move to discuss the remain three issu of victim' repar; disarma, demobil, and reintegr; and then the implement and verif of an eventu peac deal.
there is a much reduc risk of insurg attack in the one-week outlook, and potenti beyond, given that the elect will probabl go to a second round run -off on 15 june, for which there is a moder likelihood the ceasefir would be extend or renew. area where the risk of ceasefir violat are highest are the northern depart (provinc) of antioquia and the southern depart of cauca and vall de cauca, where attack have been report dure recent period of détente. alleg ceasefir violat have includ explos attack on electr tower and mortar attack on secur infrastructur.
attack are like to resum soon after the elect as peac talk continu. top target would be oil pipelin, electr distribut tower and road cargo. a breakdown in negoti under santo or an elect victori by a candid oppos to the peac process would prompt a more intens offens campaign on the part of farc and also see attempt to target govern and
secur forc build in Bogotá, pasto and tumaco (Nariño), Popayán (cauca), florencia (Caquetá), buenaventura (vall del cauca), and arauca (arauca).
polit, these event will come as a boost for the re-elect prospect of presid santo, who has come under increas pressur in the opinion poll by opposit candid Óscar Iván zuluaga of the right-of-centr centro Democrático. more broad, the ceasefir and the agreement come as posit indic for an overal agreement, which is like dure 2015 should santo be re-elect.
