venezuela's willing to shoot down suspici aircraft increas the risk of innoc aircraft be mistaken target in border zone
10 apr 2014
the govern of presid nicola maduro start enforc an airspac defenc law in octob 2013. it call for the intercept of aircraft suspect to be involv in illeg activ, violat venezuelan sovereignti or if the pilot give fals inform. they can then be 'persuaded' to compli and then engag if they refus. the law detail the step -by-step procedur that are requir for the disabl of an aircraft. these includ the intercept of suspici aircraft, their identif, the persuas procedur, and disabl through the use of forc. the shoot-down of ani aircraft consid to be hostil requir the authoris of the arm forc strateg oper command, which itself is direct subordin to the presid through the ministri of defenc. on 14 octob, the head of arm forc strateg oper command, vladimir padrino López, confirm that the air forc had shot down two aircraft alleg traffick drug in apur state. in januari 2014, the govern claim to have disabl 20 aircraft in 2013. in march 2014, in punto fijo, Falcón, three secur aircraft chase a cessna plane for alleg fli illeg in venezuelan air space.
the govern is like to concentr it effort in the intercept of drug traffick aircraft in state that border colombia. these includ apur, zulia, Táchira and amazona. that said, the govern's willing to enforc it airspac defenc law increas the risk of foreign aircraft be intercept. the experi of peru in this matter also highlight that there is a risk of accident shoot-down. peru suspend it air bridg denial programm in 2001 after a plane carri missionari was accident shot down.
the govern has a polici of shoot down foreign militari aircraft enter venezuela' s airspac. there have been no incid of this natur in recent histori. howev, on 8 januari 2010, the govern claim that a us militari p-3 orion aircraft base on the dutch island of curacao was forc to leav venezuela's airspac by two venezuelan f-16s. on 13 juli 2010, the govern claim that it radar system detect a dutch militari plane in venezuela's airspac. this follow a decemb 2009 claim that a colombian/us uav was spot abov a venezuelan militari base near the colombian border, as well as a claim that a us navi aircraft base in curacao enter venezuelan airspac in may 2009. both govern deni the alleg, but such incid increas the risk that the venezuelan air forc will engag foreign aircraft. in juli 2013, presid maduro said the govern plan to instal anti-aircraft defenc system in strateg locat nationwid.
hotspot & target
