daili brief: risk of ie attack against energi asset in colombia's antioquia to continu despit ceasefir or possibl peac agreement
27 may 2014
peril: terror
sector, asset, or individu affect: power, construct, individu, properti
analysi: soldier de-activ an improvis explos devic (ie) in the area around the 2,400-megawatt ituango hydroelectr mega-project (hidroituango), antioquia, on 25 may, accord to the armi's fourth brigad. the command of the fourth brigad, general Néstor robinson vallejo, attribut the attempt ie attack to the 36th front of the fuerza armada revolucionaria colombiana (farc). this is the second incid attribut to the farc dure the ongo ceasefir declar by it leadership and other insurg group Ejército de Liberación nacion (eln) dure the current elector period (20 -28 may). on 21 march, member of the 36th front report attempt to instal explos against an electr pylon but were prevent by member of the arm forc. the 36th front has also previous broken farc ceasefir dure the 2012/3 and 2013/4 christma period. the 36th front is activ in the north of the depart (administr region) of antioquia, in particular, in the municip of Briceño, ituango, san Andrés de cuerquia, toledo, and yarum.
risk implic: the 36th front is veri like to continu offens oper dure ceasefir declar by the farc leadership. the current ceasefir is due to expir at midnight on 28 may but the farc is like to extend the temporari truce to cover the second round of the presidenti elect on 15 june, probabl end two day later. the 36th fro nt will remain activ throughout this period. in the event of the new govern reach a peac deal with the farc, the front is veri like to continu ideolog motiv attack against infrastructur target. the most like target set is electr pylon. howev, commerci vehicl pass through the aforement municip face high risk of detent and arson - this includ vehicl carri worker or materi to the ituango hydroelectr project. contractor involv in the project includ construct firm camargo correa, conconcreto, and coninsa Ramón h - under the ccc ituango consortium - as well as alstom brasil energia e transport, a subsidiari of french engin firm alstom.
panama
