daili brief: cargo theft increas in main highway around capit caraca and the central miranda, aragua and carabobo state
07 may 2014
peril: contract frustrat, civil unrest, ground risk
sector, asset, or individu affect: cargo
analysi: two hundr lorri driver protest in venezuela's capit caraca on 4 may, follow the death of a colleagu, hire by state-run compani pdvsa, dure an arm robberi on the caraca-la guaira highway on 27 april. the driver demand the govern increas secur on key cargo rout. the death follow similar event report to secur forc in which lorri driver have been held at gunpoint on highway along venezuela's central region, which compris area near caraca and central miranda, aragua, and carabobo state. cargo theft risk are high along the caraca-la guaira highway - which connect the port of la guaira and the simon bolivar intern airport with caraca - as well as on the gran marisc de ayacucho highway and the central region highway (autopista region del centro). accord to local newspap el univers, at least 90 cargo theft take place everi month in the central region highway alon. at least five driver were report murder dure robberi on central region road between april 2013 and april 2014. most arm theft take place at night and involv the abduct of driver in order to drive past polic checkpoint, bef ore the driver are abandon. driver are particular at risk when they stop at petrol station or if they break down. accord to ih sourc, secur forc, includ member of the nation guard, sometim co-oper with gang either by deliber not provid secur or by set checkpoint.
risk implic: the event highlight how road haulier on the aforement rout are increas at risk of be intercept by organis arm crimin. these group main target item such as food, alcohol, cattl, medicin, pharmaceut, white good, and electron devic. death and injuri risk are high for lorri driver who resist. highway secur is not a govern prioriti, and road are general poor patrol, except dure n ation holiday. this increas the probabl of cargo theft over the come year. addit, as venezuela experi widespread food shortag, the risk of individu loot food -carrying lorri that break down is increas.
