terror: move toward eln peac talk unlik to mitig risk to oil and electr in arauca and nort de santand in the next year.
11 jun 2014
on 10 june, the colombian govern and the Ejército de Liberación nacion (eln) insurg group releas a joint statement reveal that exploratori talk had been underway sinc januari 2014 and they were attempt to reach an agreement on the agenda and format of a formal peac process. presid juan manuel santo said ani formal negoti wo uld be held abroad and would not includ a bilater ceasefir or demilitaris zone. these are the same condit impos on peac talk with the fuerza armada revolucionaria de colombia
(farc) insurg group, which start in novemb 2012 in cuba and were also preced by sever month of unpublicis contact on back-channel.
the announc, which came just five day befor the second round of the presidenti elect on 15 june, is veri like to have been made to boost santo's chanc of re-elect. howev, despit the polit backdrop, this announc doe mark signific progress toward a futur peac agreement. that said, the prospect for formal peac talk with the eln, alongsid those for ongo peac talk with the farc, will be condit by the result of the elect, in which centre-right santo of the social parti of nation uniti (partido social de unidad nacion: 'U') will face the conserv Óscar Iván zuluaga of the democrat centr (centro Democrático: cd) in a run-off vote.
in the event of a santo victori, a framework peac agreement with the farc and the initi of formal peac talk with the eln are like, but probabl wouldn't gather pace until a deal with the farc is be finalis, which is unlik befor earli 2015 at least. under a zuluaga presid, howev, peac talk with the farc and eln would be subject to new condit and are like to incur signific delay or even collaps. in ani case, an eln declar of a unilater ceasefir is unlik. the eln's main target set is oil pipelin (especi the Caño Limón-Coveñas but also bicentenni), electr distribut tower and cargo truck, as well as govern, polic and militari instal, and personnel, in the northeastern depart of arauca, nort de santand, casanar and northeastern Boyacá. it also has a lesser but still activ presenc in the south-western depart of cauca and Nariño, as well as Chocó and risaralda in the west.
