re-elect of the santo govern will maintain colombia’s stabil; a second santo term is like to have a reduc mandat
30 may 2014
colombia is polit stabl and it institut are robust. howev, corrupt and red tape hinder the busi environ. the situat has been exacerb by an arm intern conflict that began in 1964 and remain a sourc of terrorist activ . the govern enter in talk with the farc rebel in octob 2012; it is high unlik that a definit peac deal will occur befor august 2014.
presid santo, who took over from Álvaro urib on 7 august 2010, was elect under the banner of the ´partido de la U´, a loos coalit of former liber and conserv origin brought togeth by urib in 2002. santo will compet against opposit candid Óscar Iván zuluaga in a presidenti elect second round run -off on 15 june. grow social unrest, particular among peasant and artisan miner, as well as slow progress in the peac process have decreas presid santo's popular. zuluaga narrowli won the presidenti elect first round on 25 may with 29.25% compar to santo with 25.69%.
former presid urib has becom a strong critic of santo, accus him of be soft on the farc. urib, who is constitut bar from seek anoth presidenti term, is back former financ minist zuluaga as presidenti candid, through his recent creat centro democratico parti. victori for zuluaga, a technocrat with compar littl polit experi, would most like end or at least delay peac talk. independ parti experienc a moder comeback as santo's popular has fallen. marta Lucía Ramírez from the partido conservador came third with 15.52% , close follow by clara López from the left -of-centre polo Democráticowith 15.23%, and enriqu Peñalosa alianza verd with 8.28%.
if santo is re-elect, his mandat will have been diminish, after his rule coalit lost it absolut congression major in the march 2014 legisl elect. with close to 40% of the senat seat, he will now need to reli on a coalit with the conserv s to advanc his legisl agenda. urib's follow, with 20% of seat in the senat, will have a strong platform to critic his polici, particular the peac process.
marin terror
