a worsen macroeconom environ is like to increas strike and industri action risk in 2014, particular in state-run compani
17 mar 2014
union are more like to pursu industri action in state -own industri than in the privat sector. to date, there are about 400 expir collect bargain agreement in the public sector. labour protest in venezuela primarili affect the bauxit, steel, aluminium coal and iron sector, which is control by the state. the govern favour strong state regul of privat enterpris. this polici has modest, but not complet, support from labour group. union membership is high in venezuela, but the power of union is limit.
while union strike occur frequent, full-scal indefinit strike action has been histor less common. there is a high risk of this chang. in fact, strike action risk will increas in the one - year outlook. presid maduro is unlik to receiv the same loyalti and respect that union gave to the late former presid Chávez in a context of high inflat, scarciti of dollar and food, and slow econom growth. addit, maduro lack the leadership skill ne ede to appeas discont labour group. this is like to result in more frequent and disrupt strike. labour protest are most like to be motiv by demand for salari increas, collect bargain agreement, improv job secur and reinstat of dismiss worker, main at public sector. inde, in 2012 and 2013, protest were concentr among worker in subsidiari of the Corporación venezolana de guayana (cvg), the state -own heavi industri conglomer base in Bolívar state, port, mail compani, food and agricultur compani, at the univers sector and construct project led by the govern. sidor and cvg worker repeat went on strike in 2013. sidor worker went on strike, disrupt output, for over 32 day between novemb and decemb 2013. dure 2012-2013, pdvsa's project in eastern venezuela also suffer minor work stoppag by contractor due to pdvsa's payment delay. protest usual includ road block, burn tire and hunger strike. strike against oil servic compani, particular in the state of zulia, took place prior to the 2009
nationalis of 76 small-and-medium-s oil firm.
accord to independ report, there were 4,410 protest in venezuela in the 2013, down 20% from 5,483 compar to the same period of 2012. the main trigger of unrest were protest relat to labour right (41%), follow by level of crime (24%) and hous (23%). union from privat compani have becom more aggress. inde, the ice -cream compani efe, own by polar, has face a decreas of 70% of it product due to workforc absente and two strike in 2013. sinc 2011, other factori like the coca -Cola compani, polar and the h.j. heinz compani have suffer stoppag becaus of union worker' labour demand.
marin war, seizur & confisc
