the risk of attack on energi asset are tie to progress at rebel peac talk; risk highest in Nariño, putumayo, arauca and nort de santand
30 may 2014
the energi sector is the favourit target of the revolutionari arm forc of colombia (farc) and the smaller nation liber armi (eln). dure 2013, there were 235 record atta cks against oil and gas infrastructur, which repres a 28% increas from the previous peak in 2003, when the farc was arguabl at the height of it insurg. there have been at least 39 attack to date in 2014. oil tanker carri crude oil are also regular target, particular in putumayo, and energi sector worker, especi subcontractor, face constant extort demand and even kidnap.
risk of attack will remain high until the govern agre to a ceasefir with the farc and the eln are given a place at peac negoti. there is no concret date set for either and noth is like to happen until after the second round of presidenti elect in june this year. oil asset and personnel are at highest risk in, arauca, Caquetá, Nariño, nort de santand and putumayo depart, where product and pipelin infrastructur overlap with farc and eln stronghold. the expans of oil explor into new remot area coincid in some case with coca product area, where oil firm are like to be target by local arm group. hotspot includ vichada, and part of meta, guaviar and Guainía.
compani at direct risk includ: ecopetrol S.A., occident petroleum, chevron corpor, pacif rubial energi, petrolatina energi limit through it petronort subsidiari, Interconexión Eléctrica S.A. (isa), empresa Públicas de Medellín (epm), empresa de Energía del Pacífico S.A. (epsa), Eléctrica de occident S.A., transportadora de gas internacion S.A. e.s.p. (tgi), and central Eléctricas de Nariño S.A. e.s.p. pipelin most at risk are Caño Limón-Coveñas (occident and ecopetrol) and Río zulia-ayacucho oil pipelin (petronort), both in nort de santand and transandino (ecopetrol) in putumayo and Nariño. two natur gas pipelin in la guajira have face recent attack: the transcaribbean (chevron and ecopetrol) and ballena-bucaramanga (tgi). sever kidnap by eln rebel of worker construct the bicentenni pipelin (pacif rubial and petromineral ltd) through arauca suggest this too could be a target onc complet.
hotspot for attack against electr pylon - anoth common insurg target - are antioquia, arauca, cauca, putumayo, Nariño, nort de santand and tolima. attack on major generat facil are rare, but two electr substat were destroy by farc rebel in cauca dure an offens in septemb 2013.
civil war
