polit and econom motiv protest are like to rise in 2014 and 2015, roadblock, properti damag and detent of protest like
22 apr 2014
polit and econom motiv protest are like to rise through 2014. there is widespread discont among student and opposit group against the govern's polici, includ it inabl to resolv issu such as rise insecur, frequent blackout, shortag of food and medicin and high inflat. throughout 2014, student and opposit group have express increas discont against the govern's use of forc against protest, includ the use of violent tactic (and temporari detent) by secur forc and pro - govern arm group known as "colectivo".
student in the capit caraca, as well as in other major citi locat in state such as Táchira, Mérida, carabobo, aragua, zulia and lara, have been stage disrupt protest against the govern sinc mid-februari 2014. such protest have brought the countri to a standstil and have manifest in the form of road and highway blockad and demonstr at key citi squar and landmark. individu attend demonstr, particular those in the front line, face high death and injuri risk. the deploy of arm pro-govern group to intimid student and opposit protest increas the risk of physic harm, robberi, and vandal. these group are often arm with firearm, tear gas canist, stone, and stick and are like to confront member of the opposit and student dure demonstr. some mobilis on motorbik and are often protect by the secur forc. there have been case of them open fire against opposit protest. the govern has limit the local media's report of anti-govern protest, but video and photo share on social media have shown pro-govern group carri weapon, harm individu, and vandalis vehicl. social media has also shown member of the state's secur forc use violen t forc against protest. the deploy of pro-govern group increas the risk of opposit and busi-rel asset such as bank, the offic of busi chamber, and polit parti
headquart face vandal. govern build, and asset locat near protest area and cargo truck load with fuel and food also face the risk of properti damag.
the februari 2014 protest do not pose a short-term threat to presid nicola maduro's abil to stay in power. howev, the risk of the govern fall will signific increas if the widespread discont over econom and polit issu emerg in shanti town in combin with a fractur within the rule psuv. there is current a low risk of militari intervent due to the loyalti shown by militari forc dure the ongo wave of protest along with the dialogu process start between the govern and moder opposit.
