peac talk with farc rebel are ongo and inclus of the smaller eln is probabl, although prospect of a final settlement are far off
30 may 2014
colombia's civil conflict is now in it 50th year as the revolutionari arm forc of colombia (farc) and nation liber armi (eln) seek to overthrow the state, while new-gener drug traffick group (bacrim) take advantag of the level of insecur. accord to the govern, the farc number 7,200 fighter, down from 16,000 in 2002. follow the eln's entri into the drug trade, it number rose from 1,500 to 2,500. there are at least 4,000 bacrim member.
the govern began peac negoti with the farc in septemb 2012. the farc's leadership has been weaken, primarili through aerial bombard, and the guerrilla have been push from posit around urban area to remot jungl and mountain hideout. howev, a peac deal is not inevit. to date, the govern and the farc has announc agreement on agrarian reform, polit particip and illeg drug, but still have to reach agreement on three remain agenda point, includ disarma. howev the agreement sign on the first three point are vagu and avoid the more controversi issu. all negoti are be conduct behind close door, so it is hard to evalu real progress.
the farc has been use infrastructur attack, ambush of secur forc s, as well as support demonstr, to pressur the govern to make concess, a bilater ceasefir be the rebel' most press demand. 2013 saw the highest number of rebel attack on oil pipelin in more than a decad, and these will continu in 2014.
the eln, seek a seat at peac talk, has been mimick farc tactic in their stronghold in arauca, antioquia, Bolívar, Boyacá, nort de santand. the strategi appear to have work as the govern has agre to begin dialogu with this group although no firm date, or locat, have yet been set. the eln's negoti agenda is more ambiti than the farc's; probabl one of the reason the farc has press for eln inclus in talk, although the eln has less leverag militarili.
bacrim are work with the rebel in mani part of the countri in the interest of the drug trade. the guerrilla control most of the coca crop. violenc is becom more urban and crimin, which is reflect in the govern's current focus on strengthen the polic rather than the armi. bacrim activ is greatest in antioquia, Córdoba, vall del cauca, nort de santand and along much of the caribbean coast. the Urabeños are now the most power bacrim with presenc in at least 17 of colombia's 32 depart.
with 2014 be an elect year for the presid and congress, the sign of ani peac agreement is unlik until 2015 at the earliest.
ground
