daili brief: ie attack against colombia’s Caño Limón-Coveñas oil pipelin to continu despit increas secur measur
14 may 2014
peril: terror
sector, asset, or individu affect: oil & gas
analysi: colombian minist of mine and energi amylkar acosta on 12 may announc an increas of secur on the suspend 770-kilometr Caño Limón-Coveñas crude oil pipelin, which is due to renew pump activ tomorrow (15 may) for the first time sinc 25 march. the 80,000 barrel-per-day (bdp) pipelin, which is colombia's second largest, is oper by state oil firm ecopetrol. the pipelin has been suspend sinc an improvis explos devic (ie) - almost certain caus by insurg group the Ejército nacion de Liberación (eln) or
the fuerza armada revolucionaria de colombia (farc) - ruptur the instal on 25 march. indigen group in nort de santand depart (protest over oil spill result from the attack) had prevent repair work from be carri out, and there have been further ie attack sinc then. the closur has prevent the export of at least 2.7 million barrel of oil, lead to lost royalti of usd130 million; around 300 oil well which feed into this pipelin, includ the 75,000-bpd Caño Limón oil field oper by us oil firm occident petroleum corpor and colombian state firm ecpoetrol, have had to suspend product; and ecopetrol said it loss were at least usd220 million. separ, canadian firm pacif rubial (colombia's top privat oil produc) said on 23 april that it oil transport cost had risen by 25% in the first quarter of 2014 due to the need to move oil by tanker truck follow attack on the bicentenni pipelin, which open in octob 2013 and feed into Caño Limón -Coveñas. along with the trans-andino pipelin in putumayo and Nariño depart, the Caño Limón-Coveñas pipelin is the primari infrastructur target in colombia for insurg group, which have increas target oil and gas infrastructur over the past 18 month. dure 2013, there were 235 record attack against oil and gas infrastructur, which repres a 28% increas from the previous peak in 2003, when the farc was arguabl at the height of it insurg. there have been at least 39 attack to date in 2014. it is for this reason that acosta announc d the increas secur for the Caño Limón-Coveñas pipelin, includ an increas in aerial oper by unman aerial vehicl (uav), and the deploy of 94 platoon to the pipelin.
risk implic: the increas secur assign to the pipelin is unlik to prevent further disrupt ie attack from insurg group in 2014, given the length of pipelin that run through insurg stronghold. risk of ie attack are like to remain high along the first half of the pipelin in the depart (provinc) of arauca, Boyacá, and nort de santand. howev, the frequenc of such attack driven by ideolog or strateg motiv is like to decreas slight if, as ih expect, ongo peac talk between the farc result in at least a draft peac deal in 2015.
