violenc is like to remain high in colombia's major port citi, and fish vessel are at higher risk of detent
03 jun 2014
colombia has not experienc ani direct attack on port infrastructur, cargo ship or oil tanker. drug traffick group often place contain hold sever hundr kilo of cocain onto the undersid of ship, which are then remov when the ship reach it destin. howev, they prefer to hide shipment within the thousand of contain that move through the port everi day, or use a mix of fish vessel, go-fast boat or submarin.
the murder rate at some of colombia's port citi are well abov the nation averag, a consequ of their valu as drug export rout. the pacif port of tumaco (Nariño) has one of the highest murder rate in the countri at 140 per 100,000 against a nation averag of 34, while santa marta (magdalena) regist 52. sinc the end of 2012, buenaventura (vall del cauca), colombia's main port, has experienc an increas in violenc as rival drug traffick fight for supremaci push the murder rate to 40 per 100,000. explos devic place by insurg group target navi checkpoint near this port wound three bystand in june 2011 and anoth nine in june 2012. in novemb 2013, member of the farc threw seven i against a navi base in tumaco.
mani river are use as movement corridor for rebel and drug traffick. navi unit are frequent engag from river bank, particular on the atrato, Caguán, guaviar, meta, orinoco and putumayo river. there are so mani river and tributari that secur forc can onli patrol the more strateg, major waterway. there have been sever case of vessel be target off the coast of Chocó and Nariño. in juli 2011, 20 peopl were kidnap while their boat travel between tumaco and salahonda, Nariño, and the presenc of rebel and drug traffick in these area pose risk to small vessel.
due to the close attent paid by colombian and us forc to marin traffic in colombian water, there is veri littl piraci. one isol exampl was a piraci ring of the farc's 30th front, which oper around buenaventura, dismantl in octob 2011. there have been incid of peopl be abduct from river boat by rebel, most recent in may 2012, when suspect rebel kidnap a local councillor from a vessel in lagartera de mosquera, Nariño. although mani guerrilla front use boat to move their troop, the farc do not have a marin capabl. naval engag risk collater damag on civilian vessel and port faci liti are unlik.
due to an ongo disput between nicaragua and colombia over caribbean water around san andr, the risk of intercept and detent of fish vessel is great increas here. this is also the case around in colombian water near ecuador, where ecuadorean vessel have repeat engag in illeg fish.
hotspot & target
