daili brief: two more airlin suspend link with venezuela highlight aggrav of non- payment and currenc risk.
19 may 2014
peril: non payment, currenc risk, contract frustrat
sector, asset, or individu affect: aviat
analysi: italian airlin alitalia on 16 may confirm the temporarili suspens of flight to venezuela, have alreadi cancel 18 flight in may, while german airlin lufthansa restrict local sale of air ticket but not it oper. lufthansa will continu sell ticket through venezuelan travel agenc in foreign currenc but not in local currenc bolívares, given the difficulti of convert and repatri such revenu. accord to the head of venezuela's airlin associ (alav), humberto figuera, the govern owe airlin almost usd4 billion in foreign exchang claim. the foreign-exchang control system contribut to increas currenc risk, exacerb by declin intern reserv, which have fallen 30.4% sinc 2
januari 2013 from usd29.7 billion to usd20.7 billion, accord to central bank statist. the central bank and the govern alloc foreign currenc for import, includ servic, through the nation foreign trade centr (cencoex) and sicad i and ii complementari foreign-exchang system on a larg discretionari basi.
risk implic: lufthansa and alitalia's move follow air canada's suspens of flight in march. it is expect that air franc, iberia, and other could follow suit in the three -month outlook. the cutback highlight the aggrav of non-pay and currenc risk in venezuela, forc long-term well-establish player in the venezuelan aviat sector to curtail oper. a key negat aspect is that the govern had alreadi agre to pay t he pend debt to airlin through the sicad ii complementari foreign exchang system, accord to ih sourc, and failur to honour these commit is more like to reflect inabl to pay than a lack of polit will. the govern is like to continu prioritis foreign currenc alloc for the food, medicin, and basic good sector, seek to calm ongo anti -govern protest, which have result in at least 42 fatal. other sector are like to continu face lengthi delay, as the govern lack suffici foreign currenc to satisfi demand. pend currenc claim and unrealis repatri are estim to account to near usd25 billion, accord to local sourc.
