drug interdict programm have led to the forc down of aircraft, but most seizur now occur at airport
19 may 2014
sinc 2003, colombia has had the most effect aerial interdict pr ogramm in latin america. in 2004, the colombian air forc regist 462 suspect illeg flight, but by 2014 that number fell to less than 30, accord to offici figur. an accur figur is like to be higher, but still far below level seen a decad ago. at the start of this period, most plane were forc to land by air forc jet. nowaday, the vast major are seiz at airport by the polic. in 2013, 259 plane were seiz, up from 169 in 2012.
the shoot down of aircraft is now veri rare, and strict rule were put into place after 2001, when peru shot down a plane carri a us missionari and his child. after that incid, the us congress insist on the implement of strict procedur to minimis the risk of accident shoot down. colombia has becom a key player in the us region strategi to promot intern cooper in the intercept of suspici flight.
illeg airstrip are sometim bomb by the air forc seek to deni their use to drug traffick. most drug flight from illeg airstrip leav from the peninsula of la guajira in the north, the eastern plain, where they move into venezuela and brazil, or from Chocó, where they move into panama, all near the border minimis the risk of intercept. a drug flight was forc down in octob 2012 in the eastern depart of vichada. a plane was seiz in Chocó in decemb 2012, with this pacif provinc increas in import for drug traffick. in januari 2014 a plane load with drug was seiz in the municip of ipial, in Nariño, suggest that traffick might also be fli drug into neighbour ecuador.
govern report have indic that 14 small airplan are stolen by drug dealer on averag everi year from local airport. these plane are often abandon onc they have
land and their drug cargo unload. hondura, a key air bridg for cocain head to mexico and the us, is the favourit spot for stolen plane.
colombian airspac is monitor by land-bas radar and monitor aircraft, but also by us airborn warn and control (awac) under the auspic of plan colombia. in januari 2012, a temporari hole in radar coverag was creat when the farc attack communic infrastructur in tambo, cauca depart. the instal was quick repair. after the colombian air forc's bomb of a farc camp in ecuador in 2008, both venezuela and ecuador threaten militari action if their airspac was violat, so the border area are veri sensit in term of militari aircraft movement.
polit instabl
