except for vessel suspect of transport drug or illeg fish, colombian secur forc are unlik to use forc against maritim asset
19 may 2014
there is an increas threat to maritim asset in disput water around the san Andrés island. in novemb 2012, the intern court of justic in the hagu award nicaragua some 70,000 km² of colombian maritim territori. the colombian govern has refus to recognis the rule, and in novemb recal it ambassador in managua for consult as relat worsen. the disput water are now patrol by both colombian and nicaraguan naval forc, with nicaragua invit both us and russian ship into the area for anti -drug patrol. the colombian navi has escort nicaraguan fish vessel out of it water and nicaragua has respond in kind. nicaraguan and jamaican-flag fish vessel are the most like to be seiz by colombia's navi.
apart from this case, the princip threat of state forc be direct against maritim asset lie in counter-narcot oper. between 2003 and 2013, author have seiz more than 3,800 vessel. dure 2013, 103 boat were seiz. there is a risk that the owner, unawar that their vessel are be use to smuggl cocain, could see ship impound, pend investig. cocain is smuggl through four main method: hidden in contain transport from the major port of buenaventura (vall del cauca), tumaco (Nariño), barranquilla (Atlántico), cartagena (Bolívar) and santa marta (magdalena); use smaller vessel such as fish boat; in speedboat; and in semi-submers or submarin. a mix of differ vessel is often use. consequ, more fish vessel and pleasur boat are be intercept for random drug search, in addit to exist measur against illeg fish by peruvia n, jamaican, nicaraguan, ecuadorian and japanes vessel.
the us coast guard work close with the colombian navi, share intellig. although not indiscrimin, forc is occasion use, particular near buenaventura and tumaco, where both the farc and paramilitari group move drug shipment. the us militari also has access to colombian militari base in order to conduct counter -narcotics oper. these includ the naval base of Bahía malaga (near buenaventura on the pacif), malambo (near bar ranquilla on the caribbean) and a coast guard base near tumaco. there is a small risk that vessel use these facil could be seen as work with the us navi and therefor be target by rebel. ecuadorean fish vessel often move into colombia's pacif water; at least a dozen ecuadorian ship have been seiz by colombian offici dure 2013.there is also a border disput with venezuela, but the last time this reach a point of potenti conflict was 1987. the re-establish of diplomat relat in august 2010 and closer bilater secur cooper has lower the risk of further maritim disput.
strike & industri action
