polit instabl risk are rise but a regim chang is unlik due to govern control of the armi and a divid opposit
16 apr 2014
univers student and oppon of presid maduro's govern have stage disrupt anti-govern protest and roadblock throughout the countri sinc earli februari 20 14. the protest start with the student movement show increas discont with the countri's rise insecur, high inflat, and the scarciti of food and basic product, and with opposit voluntad popular (vp) parti leader leopoldo lopez and independ lawmak maria corina machado, member of venezuela's radic opposit, seiz the opportun by call for street demonstr and remov of presid maduro.
the protest have also been ignit by reject of the nation guard's exc sive use of forc and use of arm group to contain protest and by the 18 februari arrest of lopez and 24 march remov of machado's parliamentari immun over their particip in the protest. at least 14 of the countri's 23 state have seen anti-govern protest over the past month. there have been incid of properti damag, 41 death and over 2,500 detain sinc 12 februari to date. the moder opposit, repres by miranda governor henriqu capril has shown solidar with the protest, but has not call for the resign of maduro.
presid maduro's abil to stay in power will onli be jeopard if widespread discont over food shortag and high inflat emerg in caraca' shanti town in combin with a fractur within the leadership of the rule psuv parti. this has not happen to date and there are instead indic of the govern gradual start to manag the crisi, rather than succumb to it. discont toward the govern persist but the radic of the student movement and set up of barricad has start to alien opposit sympath. this
has contribut to the protest movement lose strength in term of size and intens throughout april, compar to februari and march 2014.
the govern is also capit on the opposit's divis and inabl to control the student movement and has success use the crisi to keep the rule psuv parti base unit around presid maduro and gain time to keep the popul d istract from unpopular measur (devalu) introduc dure the crisi in an attempt to fix the economi. more import, the public loyalti shown by the militari toward maduro dure the ongo wave of protest, combin with the 10 april start of a dialogu process between the moder opposit, repres by the mud coalit, and with the mediat of the vatican and union of south american countri (unasur), make the probabl of a militari coup unlik. the govern will like continu to highlight the high risk of an alleg "right-w" opposit coup to ralli it support. it has also initi a purg within the militari aim at assur the arm forc' support toward the revolut.
protest & riot
