daili brief: peac talk between govern and eln unlik to improv secur situat in northeastern colombia in short term.
11 jun 2014
peril: terror
sector, asset, or individu affect: all sector
analysi: on 10 june, the presid of the republ of colombia and the Ejército de Liberación nacion (eln) insurg group releas a joint statement to announc that the two side were engag in preliminari peac talk. accord to the communiqué, exploratori peac talk have been ongo sinc januari 2014, and will attempt to reach an agreement on the agenda and format of a formal peac process. presid juan manuel santo also state that formal peac talk would be held abroad and would not includ a bila teral ceasefir or demilitaris zone. these are the same condit impos on peac talk with the fuerza armada revolucionaria de colombia (farc) insurg group, which start in novemb 2012; the farc talk were also preced by sever month of unpublicis contact on back-channel. polit, the announc, which came just five day befor the second round of the presidenti elect on 15 june, is veri like to have been made to boost santo's chanc of re-elect.
risk implic: despit the polit backdrop, this announc doe mark signific progress toward a futur peac agreement. the prospect for formal peac talk with the eln, alongsid those for ongo peac talk with the farc, will be condit by the result s of the elect, in which centre-right santo of the social parti of nation uniti (partido social de unidad nacion: 'U') will face the conserv Óscar Iván zuluaga of the democrat centr (centro Democrático: cd) in a run-off vote. in the event of a santo victori, a framework peac agreement with the farc and the initi of formal peac talk with the eln are like in the one-year outlook. under a zuluaga presid, howev, peac talk with the farc and eln would be subject to new condit and are like to incur signific delay. in ani case, an eln declar of a unilater ceasefir is unlik. the eln's main target set is oil instal, cargo, and personnel, as well as govern, polic and militari instal, and personn el, in the northeastern depart of arauca, nort de santand, and northeastern Boyacá; it also has a lesser but activ presenc in part of the countri's south -west.
