rebel regular target militari aircraft and are activ seek sam; civilian aircraft use share civilian/militari airport are at risk
19 may 2014
revolutionari arm forc of colombia (farc) guerrilla frequent target polic and militari helicopt and aircraft as well as crop dust plane erad drug crop. the insurg group use high-calibr machin gun and small arm fire. armi and polic helicopt are regular hit, particular in antioquia, cauca, meta, nort de santand and tolima - a civilian helicopt carri militari personnel was shot down by suspect member of the farc in Anorí, antioquia, in januari 2014 - as are civilian contractor engag in the fumig of drug crop. in octob 2013, a us civilian pilot crash land his crop duster in Caquetá after be engag by farc rebel, while anoth plane was shot down in the depart in septemb, kill the pilot. these event led to the suspens of crop -spraying oper on 17 decemb 2013. crop fumig was resum on 15 februari and aircraft involv in the activ are like to face high risk of damag from insurg gunfir.
although the farc began peac negoti with the govern in octob 2012, the rebel are activ seek to acquir surface-to-air missil (sam) to neutralis the state's air power advantag. in decemb 2012, the militari seiz sam 7s from the farc in cauca. in juli 2013, an sam missil was seiz in ecuador, on the border with colombia. we assess that the guerrilla are like to possess sam, but the chanc that their batteri or electr still work are minim. the farc have also tri to build homemad rocket launcher, with the last seiz in august 2013 in huila, but their effect in be abl to bring down an aircraft is question.
in juli 2013, a soldier was kill patrol the airfield in tumaco (Nariño), find an explos devic alongsid the runway. in march 2012, the airport facil at san vicent del caguan, Caquetá, were attack with explos, damag the control tower, the second time in a year the airport had been target follow the fire of motor round at polic aircraft in 2011. similar attack have been seen at neiva (huila), tumaco (Nariño) saravena (arauca). in march 2010, farc rebel burn a helicopt belong to argentin firm pluspetrol in meta follow extort demand. civilian aircraft use airport that share facil with militari airbas are at risk of be mistaken or deliber target by the farc, particular at the airport in saravena, tumaco, san vicent del caguan and neiva.
improvis explos devic (i) have also been use by the farc to target aircraft on final approach. most recent, explos were deton against a polic helicopt upon land in Briceño, antioquia, in decemb 2013. in octob 2013, a helicopt involv in repair work on the transandino oil pipelin was impact by explos befor land in putumayo.
marin war, seizur & confisc
