daili brief: venezuelan govern's water and energi ration plan will further deterior busi and secur environ
09 may 2014
peril: civil unrest, contract frustrat
sector, asset, or individu affect: all sector
analysi: venezuelan author announc yesterday (8 may) an electr ration scheme that will affect the oil rich western zulia state and a water ration scheme that will affect the capit caraca amid a sever drought. zulia had been receiv gas for electr from colombia, which halt suppli to give prioriti to the domest market as result of a drought generat by el Niño climat phenomenon. ration scheme affect sever venezuelan state in 2009, 2010 and 2011. one of the first act of the govern head by Nicolás maduro, inaugur in april 2013, was to declar a 90-day state of emerg in the electr sector, effect from 23 april. this suggest that improv energi suppli was to be a high prioriti for his administr. 53% of venezuela's instal capac on the nation interconnect system is hydroelectr - a total of 27,500 megawatt. the countri's largest power plant is the guri plant on the Caroní river which has an instal capac of 8,851 mw, make it one of the world's largest hydroelectr plant.
risk implic: the ration scheme come at a critic time for the govern and will contribut to the further deterior of venezuela's alreadi affect busi and secur environ. the electr ration is the result of year of underinvest and lack of mainten in the sector, which intensifi after the nationalis of the electr industri in 2007. electr ration will affect entiti with high energi consumpt, includ industri, shop centr, and privat compani, lead to a drop in industri product and retail sale. this slowdown will heighten the expect contract of -1.9% in econom growth for 2014. a similar drought affect water level at the guri dam reservoir between 2009 and 2010, lead to an electr crisi, which along with the global econom downturn, result in six quarter in a row of econom contract. the decis to reinstat energi -saving measur and water ration scheme for caraca is like to further hit the popular of maduro's govern and will continu to fuel ongo protest about shortag of food and basic good and the
deterior of the situat of secur in the countri, which has alreadi seen 42 peopl kill sinc 4 februari.
