venezuela has seen a slight increas in piraci incid over the last two year, but offshor maritim asset are unlik to be attack
21 may 2014
vessel anchor off the eastern coast of venezuela face a threat of piraci from crimin group. the incid dure the past three year indic that the area of highest risk is the eastern coast, includ the port of guanta, near trinidad and tobago, and puerto la cruz. the larger port of puerto cabello, venezuela's main port, near the citi of valencia, and la guaira, which serv the capit caraca, pose lower risk. privat yacht anchor off the coast, rather than berth in a marina, are more at risk than oil tanker and cargo and contain ship, which take elabor secur measur. small crimin gang also oper around the lake maracaibo area in zulia state, though they are like to target fishermen rather than oil firm.
pirat will probabl be arm with firearm and knive. individu on vessel are not like to be target for kidnap, as the main motiv is theft. nevertheless, in recent case of attack on privat yacht, crew member have been either injur or kill when attempt to ram the pirat' vessel or tri to resist robberi. on 4 septemb 2013, a dutch sailor was murder after resist a robberi attempt off margarita island. on 25 june 2012, four arm men in one
boat board a vessel anchor in mochima island, state of Anzoátegui, steal person belong and cash. two boat anchor in the orinoco delet suffer a similar arm robberi in the same month. in decemb 2011, onsa report a case of piraci in the morrocoy nation park in the central state of Falcón. in 2008 and 2009, yacht own by british, american and french citizen suffer pirat attack.
as venezuela has becom a key transship locat for drug, small and larg vessel are at risk of be use unknow to transport drug. in 2013, spanish and french author seiz fish boat load with drug that had depart from venezuelan port. go -fast speed boat with consign of illeg drug, liquor and fuel increas use small port on the coast of venezuela, and around the orinoco river delta as departur point. on 21 septemb 2013, honduran author detain a panama flag boat in an attempt to smuggl fuel. the boat had depart from maracaibo lake, in western venezuela.
despit a grow maritim crime problem, the risk of terrorist attack or boat bomb by domest venezuelan polit group, or from crimin group base in neighbour colombia, is low. there is no preced of attack against offshor oil asset. onshor, crime is high near port in puerto cabello, la guaira and puerto la cruz. the navi and coast guard plan to expand their capabl, although their presenc is low beyond the main port.
polit instabl
