the govern has spent billion on strengthen the militari, but the likelihood of war with colombia or guyana is low
10 apr 2014
presid nicola maduro is like to continu an arm procur programm start by late hugo Chaﾌ」ez in 2005.maduro increas reli in the support of the armi to sustain his govern and is like to grant the militari addit power, includ over econom sector, to assur support toward his govern. while the likelihood of a us invas of venezuela similar in natur to the us invas of panama in 1989 is veri low, it was use by Chaﾌ」ez to justifi about $16 billion-worth of arm contract and build new militari infrastructur, includ naval and missil base. maduro is like to use the same justif to strengthen the militari. accord to rosoboronexport, the state intermediari for russian arm export, venezuela has bought weapon worth $11 billion from russia sinc 2007. russia has provid 76% of the weapon purchas by venezuela. sinc octob 2013, the govern has been use the air forc to intercept and shoot down aircraft suspect to be involv in drug traffick.
venezuela's arm build-up pose a low risk to neighbour colombia. in march 2008, late presid Chaﾌ」ez despatch 10 armi battalion to the border with colombia dure a diplomat disput over a colombian militari incurs into ecuador. the two nation had been close to war in 1987 when a colombian corvett enter disput water in the gulf of venezuela and then-presid jaim lusinchi respond by mobilis venezuelan naval vessel. colombia view Chaﾌ」ez's militari build-up with suspicion. howev, colombia, with probabl polit and intellig support from the us, would be like to have the edg in a militari conflict with venezuela. the colombian militari's level of battl readi and the experi and profession of it soldier make it a superior forc on the battlefield. howev, the prospect of war has consider decreas sinc 2010, main as a result of a cordial relationship that develop between venezuelan govern offici and colombian presid juan manuel santo. the relationship between maduro and santo is also cordial and war between the two countri is still unlik.
there is a low risk of conflict with neighbour guyana, with which there is disput over the sovereignti of the essequibo region. howev, recent oil explor on guyana's shelf border venezuela is like to trigger further territori disput. inde, in octob 2013, the venezuelan navi intercept and temporarili detain a vessel hire by anadarko that was perform seismic studi in disput water. compani oper in disput area, includ those in the disput essequibo region, face the risk of detent by the venezuelan armi. in novemb 2007, guyana alleg that a group of venezuelan soldier illeg enter it essequibo territori and destroy two local own gold-min dredger on the cuyuni river.
terror risk to energi asset
