daili brief: panama and venezuela resumpt of diplomat relat decreas non-pay risk for panamanian export.
09 jun 2014
peril: non-pay risk, contract frustrat
sector, asset, or individu affect: export sector
analysi: presid-elect juan carlo varela from the Panameñista parti (partido Panameñista: pp) confirm on 4 june that his govern will resum diplomat relat with venezuela on it inaugur day (1 juli). presid Nicolás maduro broke diplomat relat with panama on 5 march, after incumb presid ricardo martinelli's govern request a meet at the organ of american state (oa) to discuss the current wave of anti - govern protest in venezuela, at which there have been 42 fatal. on 6 march, venezuela's foreign minist Elías jaua said that his govern had decid to suspend a review of the venezuelan privat sector's foreign-curr debt to the panamanian busi sector leav the debt unresolv. accord to leopoldo benedetti, the general manag er of
panama's Colón free trade zone, venezuelan busi owe between usd535 million and usd2 billion to panamanian counterpart. provis of more accur figur is complic by claim that a signific percentag of the debt could be fraudul. t he accumul debt has result main from venezuela's govern failur to alloc foreign exchang within the tight exchang control system. along with colombia, venezuela is one of the main buyer from the Colón free trade area. product includ electr applianc, chemic, machineri, textil, shoe and pharmaceut product. the Colón free zone export usd15 billion in 2012, of which 20% was sent to venezuela. in 2013, a bi-nat committe was form to assess how the venezuela govern would help import to pay their debt to panamanian export.
risk implic: the resumpt of diplomat relat between panama and venezuela is like to moder decreas non-pay and contract frustrat risk for panamanian export. varela will push for pend debt to be paid but such effort will be constrain by the venezuelan busi sector's inabl to honour extern commit, given the countri's exchang control and acut shortag of foreign currenc. non -payment and contract frustrat risk will remain high in venezuela. prioriti will be given to alloc dollar for food and pharmaceut import amid the systemat deterior of venezuela's economi. this is expect to contract at least 1.7% in 2014.
venezuela
ground
