ani naval confront would probabl affect western energi asset, but war is unlik through 2015; suspect smuggler are at risk of detent
21 may 2014
venezuela has a long-stand maritim border disput with colombia over the water of the gulf of venezuela, adjac to the guajira peninsula. the two nation came close to war in 1987 when a colombian corvett enter venezuelan water and then presid lusinchi respond by mobilis naval vessel. in 2013, colombia creat a special naval forc in border area with venezuela, while the reciproc strengthen of the venezuelan navi, begun by the late presid Chávez in 2005, underpin the potenti for a re -emergence of the conflict. howev, we assess that the prospect of a conflict occur is low in the two -year outlook at least, as both nation enjoy friend relat, particular sinc colombia's presid santo took offic in august 2010. in the event of an unlik war, the oil industri in the west of venezuela is like to be affect.
venezuela claim an extens area of territori in guyana as it own. the disput is over histor land right in the essequibo region. an 1899 arbitr decis grant sovereignti over the essequibo region to what is now guyana, but venezuela reject that rule. in march 2012, venezuela's govern reject guyana's request to extend it continent shelf, argu that the essequibo region was the subject of an ongo territori disput . over the last decad, there have been claim from each countri over alleg illeg entri into the disput territori. offshor oil explor in guyana will increas the risk of diplomat disput. on 11 octob 2013, the venezuelan navi detain a vessel hire by us firm anadarko to conduct seismic studi in disput water. howev, a war between the two countri is unlik as both countri are commit to resolv their disput diplomat.
relat with trinidad and tobago are cordial, but there is a risk of confront near the maritim border over the develop of the offshor gas field. in octob 2012, the venezuelan navi board a petrotrin oil rig oper by well servic in trinidad to verifi whether it was in venezuelan water. ani similar disput are like to be resolv diplomat.
venezuela maintain a long-run territori claim over bird rock, a small islet locat 70 mile
west of dominica, also known as isla de ave. the islet is signific becaus it provid ground for claim larger sovereign right over caribbean water. venezuela has establish a naval base on the islet, but militari action is unlik.
foreign vessel are at risk of be detain for alleg involv in drug, weapon and fuel smuggl, or lfor ack of sail permit. for exampl, in septemb 2012, a us-flagged vessel and it crew were detain for alleg smuggl weapon. in 2013, over 220 boat were temporari confisc for lack of paperwork by tax author seniat.
aviat war, seizur & shootdown by the state
