terror risk will increas in 2014, driven by polit instabl and a rise in organis crime, but large-scal attack are unlik
10 apr 2014
large-scal terrorist incid in venezuela are unlik. howev, the wave of anti -govern protest affect venezuela sinc mid-februari 2014 have led to small-scal attack against public asset such as truck of the state-run telecom firm cantv in carabobo state; a power substat of the electr compani corpoelec in Táchira state; and the state -run tv station and metro station in caraca. although the govern claim the opposit plan to oust presid maduro violent, they do not have the capabl to combat secur forc with violenc. howev, there is a high risk that radic opposit group set govern properti on fire, particular vehicl own by state-run firm.
polit polaris has also led to dozen of small-scal attack against the offic of opposit polit parti, busi feder fedecamara, two synagogu and on the offic of opposit-aligned newspap and televis channel over the past two year. govern own asset, includ offic of the rule psuv parti have also suffer damag. in most case, attack have use tearga canist, home -made pipe bomb, incendiari devic and, rare, fragment grenad. while minor physic damag is usual the result, injuri are rare. the perpetr are typic never caught.
large-scal incid are veri rare. in one of the onli case, in novemb 2004, a state prosecutor name danilo anderson was kill by a bomb plant under his car. anderson was investig hundr of individu who support the attempt coup against the late presid Chávez in 2002, but also had mani enemi within the pro -Chávez faction.
histor, venezuela's border region with colombia, particular the arauca depart, has been the area most prone to terrorist activ, with arm attack perpetr by revolutionari arm forc of colombia (farc) rebel against venezuelan armi post. howev, incid of this type were virtual non-exist dure Chávez' 14-year term. the farc view the venezuelan militari as non-threaten, or even as an alli forc. colombian illeg group frequent cross into venezuela when pursu by the colombian secur forc. howev, there have been except. on 10 march 2012, two venezuelan soldier were kill in an ambush near Junín, Táchira state. author say that the attack then escap across the nearbi colombian border. this incid, coupl with the recent farc attack on colombian energi infrastructur near the venezuelan border, highlight the potenti for increas extort and kidnap risk from colombian arm group in the western venezuela border region.
interst war
