there is a modeat risk that labour union will use industri action to pressur a new govern into award concess in the six-month outlook.
30 may 2014
dure the run-up to the presidenti elect in 2014 there has been an increas in industr ial action as labour union have sought to forc concess out of the outgo govern under presid santo. this has includ strike in the artisan mine, agricultur, cargo, teach and judiciari sector. these risk are like to persist dure the six-month outlook as labour union are like to attempt to exert similar pressur on the newli -elected govern, which is due to be inaugur in august, follow the presidenti elect second round in june 2014.
strike in the oil industri pose a signific risk of product disrupt at oil well, pipelin and refineri. this industri action is most like to be driven by sub -contracted worker. in septemb 2013, a four-day strike by sub-contract staff work on an expans project affect ecopetrol's reficar refineri in cartagena. in may 2013, worker with occident petroleum corpor, with the back of the oil worker' union uso, manag to paralys the product of 30,000 barrel of oil. strike by employe of pacif rubial and petromineral, both canadian-own, contribut to a 6.4% month-on-month declin in oil product in septemb 2011.
there is a moder risk that strike oil worker will engag in violent action against oil infrastructur and compani asset. in januari 2012, strike contract worker at ecopetrol's la cira infanta oilfield caus damag to ecopetrol vehicl and block road lead to oil site. on 24 juli 2012, in puerto libertador, Córdoba, 1,000 worker at colombian firm gecelc a energi's power plant block road and launch incendiari attack against two vehicl, demand better pay.
strike in the mine sector tend to last up to a week, but can be protract. in septemb 2013, worker at us firm drummond's la loma coal mine lift their strike after 54 day. in juli 2012, the same firm was unabl to load all avail ship due to a strike by mainten worker at fenoco, colombia's main coal railway. glencor, drummond and goldman sach are all sharehold in the fenoco railway. glencor xstrata plc's la jagua coal mine and anglo american plc, bhp billiton and glencor xstrata's Cerrejón coal mine are also particular prone to industri action.
outsid extract industri, travel and cargo are most like to suffer from disrupt strike. dure the nation agricultur protest in august to septemb 2013, lorri driver' union, the atc and acc, call a strike over fuel price caus estim loss of usd360 million dure a two week period. further strike or threat of strike are like from the cargo associ throughout 2014 due to the controversi, unresolv issu of fuel price.
interst war
