the size of the oil industri make energi asset potenti terrorist target, but the risk that oil instal will be singl out is low
21 may 2014
venezuela is heavili depend on it oil industri, which account for about 94% of export earn. howev, no opposit group have shown an inclin to damag oil asset as way of protest or in respons to grow polit polaris. that said, dure the wave of anti-govern protest that start in mid-februari 2014, suspect protest group have set fire to fuel tanker own by state oil firm pdvsa; thrown small i against sever of pdvsa's administr build nationwid; and vandal state-run electr firm corpoelec asset. small-scal arson attack and incid of properti damag are like to continu while anti-govern protest are ongo.
venezuela's oil refineri face greater risk of damag from industri accid ent and poor mainten than from terror. numer oil instal and pipelin are locat in the western state of zulia, which border colombia. while guerrilla from the revolutionari arm forc of colombia (farc) have in the past target pdvsa facil, their motiv has been robberi of fuel rather than polit. howev, a gas pipelin co -own by the two countri was attack by the farc twice on the colombian side of the border in 2011 and octob 2013, halt the suppli of 250 million cubic feet per day from colombia to venezuela, where the fuel is use to the electr and residenti sector. farc has howev no intent of attack commerci asset in venezuela as they view the venezuelan govern, which help the rebel group facilit peac talk with the colombian govern, as an alli.
oilfield and process plant in eastern venezuela in which multin particip are unlik to face a terrorist attack. howev, a rise in kidnap, murder and arm robberi case has been record in the oil produc state of Anzoátegui and zulia. this pose secur risk for foreign work and visit these two state, includ in the citi of maracaibo and puerto la cruz. foreign firm such as schlumberg limit, weatherford intern, chevron corpor, royal dutch shell plc, repsol S.A., the maersk group and baker hugh inc oper in those state.
venezuela depend on hydroelectr generat for about 64% of domest power product. the largest generat plant is the guri facil on the river caroni in southern venezuela. the guri facil is a potenti target for terrorist but the likelihood of an attack occur is minim. on 23 april 2013, the govern militaris electr facil, alleg in order to prevent act of sabotag due to frequent power shortag. howev, the greater risk to the power grid is it weak infrastructur and low capac.
aviat terror
