daili brief: report credit from oil servic compani highlight venezuela's effort to increas upstream invest and oil product
23 may 2014
peril: non-pay, contract frustrat
sector, asset, or individu affect: oil
analysi: venezuela's minist of oil and mine and head of nation oil compani pdvsa, rafael ramirez, yesterday (22 may) announc an agreement with oil servic compani halliburton, schlumberg, and weatherford, which includ a credit line for usd2 billion. the agreement is aim at strengthen the oil servic sector in venezuela in term of drill and mainten of well. venezuela has also sign fund agreement with intern oil compani chines cnpc, us chevron, italian eni, russian gazprom, spanish repsol, anglo - french perenco, and venezuelan suelopetrol, which togeth account for usd11 billion. pdvsa plan to produc an averag of 2.9 mmb/d dure 2014, less than the offici current averag daili product of 3.1 mmb/d. the compani also plan to export 1.97 mmb/d, compar with an averag 2.04 mmb/d export dure 2013. pdvsa reli veri heavili on borrow from it partner to increas product in the orinoco heavi oil belt, and repay the debt in kind with oil.
risk implic: the event highlight the ongo effort of the govern to increas oil product. these agreement confirm that the govern has alreadi begun to take a more pragmat approach to upstream investor, offer some of pdvsa's joint ventur partner a greater degre of financi and oper control in project in order to incentivis new invest. this, in principl, is attract for servic compani, which are awar that the oil sector can still provid opportun amid venezuela's deterior busi environ. howev, the extent to which the govern will be abl to make improv ment to upstream invest condit will be limit by continu econom constraint and ideolog resist from within the rule unit socialist parti of venezuela (psuv). the govern is awar that if it fail to increas oil product, it will not be abl to deal with the grow fiscal and current account deficit, alloc dollar for essenti import, or fund social programm. failur to do so would further intensifi the ongo social protest in major citi and undermin the legitimaci of presid Nicolás maduro's administr.
