the farc and eln insurg group pose highest risk to energi asset, specif pipelin, in northeastern and southwestern depart
19 may 2014
the revolutionari arm forc of colombia (farc) remain the strongest insurg group activ in colombia. the govern put their number at under 7000 fighter, down from 16,000 in 2002. howev, it doe not recognis up to 30,000 militiamen which form the guerrilla' primari offens forc. while reduc in territori reach, the farc still has offens capac in antioquia, arauca, cauca, Caquetá, Chocó, guaviar, huila, meta, Nariño, nort de santand and putumayo, as well as part of antioquia, tolima, vall del cauca and vichada. there are regular attack on energi infrastructur in antioquia, arauca, cauca, la guajira, Nariño, nort de santand and putumayo. the farc have been engag in peac talk with the govern sinc septemb 2012, but so far the govern has refus to consid a bilater ceasefir.
the farc is predomin a rural forc but can carri out oper in provinci capit such as Popayán, neiva, pasto and san José del guaviar. under pressur from aerial bombard the rebel have broken into small group, use landmin, roadsid bomb and sniper in place of larger scale ambush, which are now rare. it militia, hidden among the civilian popul and onc dedic to logist and intellig gather, is now use oper. the volum and pace of farc attack are larg depend on the peac talk. attack on state target and energi infrastructur have been use to appli pressur on the govern dure negoti. attack on oil pipelin in 2013 were highest for at least 12 year, with 259 regist, compar to 151 in 2012. there have been at least 39 attack on oil infrastructur to mid-may in 2014.
the smaller nation liber armi (eln) had been in declin but it belat involv ment in drug traffick and allianc with the farc has strengthen the group to around 2,500 fighter. it has presenc in area with oil and mine oper, especi antioquia, arauca, Bolívar, Chocó, Nariño and nort de santand. it has mimick the tactic of it farc alli and step up attack on energi infrastructur and kidnap in it stronghold as it seek to pressur the govern to allow it to join the peac talk.. the govern has announc it is prepar to sit down with the group, but no venu or timet has yet been set. the allianc with the farc has result in joint attack in arauca and nort de santand.
crimin gang (banda criminal; bacrim) engag in extort, occasion back up by small bomb and kidnap. they are increas collabor with guerrilla in the drug trade. bacrim are strongest in antioquia, Atlántico, cauca, Chocó, Córdoba, guaviar, Bolívar, magdalena, meta, la guajira, Nariño, nort de santand, vichada and vall del cauca.
protest & riot
