small aircraft are increas at risk of be stolen by drug-traffick, but the risk of terrorist attack on commerci aviat is low
10 apr 2014
group involv in drug traffick pose threat to aviat compani and owner of small privat aircraft. over the past year, as venezuela has becom an import tran shipment countri for drug, the incid of aircraft theft has increas, particular in the southern state of Bolívar and the central state of guarico and carabobo. on 6 januari 2012, a cessna 401 aircraft own by a farmer was stolen from ciudad Bolívar airport; the same place where in februari 2011 crimin stole two u206 cessna aircraft. in februari 2010, gunmen, alleg associ with drug traffick, stole a pa-23-250 aircraft from the vall de la pascua airport in
guarico state. in septemb 2013, secur forc captur five peopl attempt to steal an aircraft from caraca metropolitan airport.
incid in which arm group have deliber fire at venezuelan aircraft deem to be offens have not been report sinc the late presid Chávez enter offic in 1999. howev, the govern of presid maduro start enforc an airspac defenc law in octob 2013, when it shot down two drug traffick aircraft in apur state. in januari 2014, the govern claim to have disabl 20 aircraft in 2013. in march 2014, in punto fijo, Falcón, three secur aircraft chase a cessna plane for alleg fli illeg in venezuelan air space.
in 2010, then presid Chávez order the air forc to shoot down ani foreign militari ai rcraft. this came after the govern claim it had spot a colombian/us drone in venezuela in 2009, and after presid Chávez claim that a us militari p-3 orion aircraft base on the dutch island of curacao enter venezuelan airspac, and that it was forc to leav by two venezuelan f-16s. shoot-down risk is compound by the fact that militari need to demonstr their commit to the revolutionari legaci of Chávez. this rais risk that local command will be over eager to engag suspici aircraft.
charter and commerci passeng aircraft, as well as privat jet, are at risk of be use for drug traffick, in particular to mexico, hondura, the dominican republ, europ and west africa. in septemb 2013, french author seiz 1.3 ton of cocain that arriv in pari at charl de gaull airport on an air franc flight from venezuela's Simón Bolívar intern airport. the drug had an estim street valu of eur200 million. the larg drug cargo strong suggest the involv of member of the venezuelan arm forc -which control airports- in provid logist for drug traffick organ but also the possibl involv of other individu, connect with airlin staff or sub contractor, in handl the drug.
marin terror
