daili brief: farc and eln ceasefir reduc risk of insurg attack on infrastructur in colombia in one month outlook
19 may 2014
peril: terror, war
sector, asset, or individu affect: all sector
analysi: colombian insurg group, the fuerza armada revolucionaria de colombia (farc) and Ejército de Liberación nacion (eln), announc a ceasefir between 20 and 28 may on friday (16 may). the cessat of offens oper against the arm forc and econom infrastructur has been call to facilit the upcom presidenti elect on 25 may. given that both rebel group see the incumb, presid juan manuel santo, as their best chanc for a peac deal, this unilater ceasefir is probabl aim d at boost his campaign. howev, santo' govern has declin to reciproc, impli that the ceasefir will be unilater and militari oper against the insurg group will continu. the announc come against the backdrop of an agreement, also on friday, between the colombian govern and the farc on the issu of illeg drug - the third of six topic on the negoti agenda in the ongo peac talk. sinc the peac talk began in cuba in novemb 2012, the two parti have also reach agreement on agrarian reform and polit
particip. the parti will now move to discuss the remain three issu of victim' repar; disarma, demobil, and reintegr; and then the implement and verif of an eventu peac deal.
risk implic: there is a much reduc risk of insurg attack in the one -week outlook, and potenti beyond, given that the elect will probabl go to a second round run -off on 15 june, for which there is a moder likelihood the ceasefir would be extend or renew.
area where the risk of ceasefir violat are highest are the northern depart (provinc) of antioquia and the southern depart of cauca and vall de cauca, where attack have been report dure recent period of détente. alleg ceasefir violat have includ explos attack on electr tower and mortar attack on secur infrastructur. polit, these event will come as a major boost for the re-elect prospect of presid santo, who has come under increas pressur in the opinion poll by opposit candid Óscar Iván zuluaga of the right-of-centr centro Democrático. more broad, the ceasefir and the agreement come as posit indic for an overal agreement, which is like dure 2015 should santo be re-elect.
