the highest risk of conflict is with nicaragua; civil unrest in venezuela has made the situat with colombia delic
03 jun 2014
the highest risk of interst conflict lie with nicaragua, follow a rule by the intern court of justic (icj), in novemb 2012, that award nicaragua some 70,000 squar kilometr of caribbean water claim by colombia. the water are arou nd the island of san andr and providencia and the quita Sueño bank. presid santo has made it clear that while colombia respect the intern court, it cannot recognis the rule and, in novemb
2013, recal his ambassador from managua for consult. the disput water are now be patrol by the navi of both countri, and nicaragua has approv the entri of us and russian navi to patrol the zone against drug traffick.
nicaragua is prospect for oil in the disput water, which will increas the risk of diplomat disput between the two state. there is a risk of minor skirmish, but this is like to be mitig by the presenc of the us, which has good relat with both state. there is an elev risk of temporari detent of ship, after nicaragua increas it fish presenc follow the icj rule. despit their territori and diplomat disput, a full -scale conflict is unlik and nicaragua could not challeng colombia militarili on it own, but could ca ll upon an alli like venezuela.
santo' effect diplomaci has reduc risk of war with venezuela and ecuador. under ex-presid urib, bilater relat deterior mark. colombia and venezuela share a 2,219km border. there is an ongoingwith venezuela over los monj, a group of caribbean island, as well as the colombian provinc of la guajira. howev, there have not been ani major incid relat to these disput sinc august 1987, when a colombian navi ship and the venezuelan air forc near engag in combat. in septemb 2013, there were alleg that venezuelan soldier cross into la guajira.
after colombia's 2008 bomb of a farc camp in ecuador, venezuela's then -presid, hugo Chávez state that ani similar incurs into venezuela would lead to war. diplomat relat were suspend in june 2010 after urib complain that more than 1,500 colombian rebel oper from venezuela. relat were restor when santo becam presid in august 2010. sinc then bilater cooper and trade have increas. howev relat have enter anoth delic phase after the current venezuelan presid, nicola maduro, has sought to blame civil unrest on element from colombia and the us. after the 2008 bombard, ecuador sever diplomat relat with colombia, but they were re-establish by santo in decemb 2010. ecuador has increas it troop presenc along the border, dismantl farc camp and frequent engag with colombian rebel present in ecuadorian territori. improv bilater relat and now militari cooper against the farc make conflict between ecuador and colombia high unlik.
terror risk to energi asset
