daili brief: extort and ie attack in colombian citi of Quibdó to continu regardless of farc peac talk
02 jun 2014
peril: terror
sector, asset, or individu affect: retail, individu
analysi: the colombian civil defenc forc (defensa civil colombiana) on 30 may report that 15 peopl had been injur in an improv explos devic (ie) attack against the monserr supermarket in the citi of Quibdó, the capit of the pacif coast depart (administr region) of Chocó. the incid occur in the central tres esquina sector of the citi, less than 1 kilometr from the locat of an ie attack against the mercam supermarket in which four peopl were kill and anoth 15 injur in februari. the most rece nt attack was attribut to the fuerza armada revolucionaria de colombia (farc) insurg group's 54th front, accord to the govern secretari of Chocó, bismark Calimeño. this inform is almost certain inaccur given that the farc's 54th front oper in central colombia. the 34th front is the onli farc unit that is activ in Quibdó, and is far more like to have carri out the attack. the previous attack against the mercam supermarket was attribut to the 34th front, and sever alleg member of the unit have been arrest in connect with the incid. some local media sourc also blame the clan Úsaga crimin group, former known as los Urabeños, for the attack but the group is veri like to be in close collabor with criminalis element of the farc at a local level in Quibdó. both attack are extrem like to be the result of non-pay of extort demand, known local as 'vacunas'.
risk implic: given the suspect crimin rather than ideolog motiv of the attack, the risk of extort and relat ie attack are like to remain high in the one -year outlook. this includ the possibl of a possibl peac agreement between the colombian govern and the leadership of the farc, who were critic of the februari attack. the most like target set for such attack is local commerci properti in Quibdó's central commerci zone, in contrast to other area of farc activ where local govern, polic and armi instal are the main target. risk of collater death and injuri are, therefor, consider higher. the citi of Quibdó is not a major tourist destin; howev, intern mine firm anglogold ashanti ltd and votorantim group do have oper in the municip of qui bdó.
