polic and port author corrupt, highway robberi, social protest and food shortag pose the highest risk to road cargo transport
10 apr 2014
haulier transport good by road from the princip port of puerto cabello, la guaira and puerto la cruz to distribut depot in valencia, caraca and puerto la cruz are at risk of be stop by organis arm crimin to steal valuabl item, especi white good or food. they are also at risk if they get stuck on the road. truck driver have been kill or kidnap at night on the motorway from puerto cabello to valencia and from la guaira to caraca. on januari 2014, local polic report that four to eight crimin gang oper in the valencia-puerto cabello highway, though the govern doe not releas offici statist on the matter.
crimin gang that kidnap civilian and steal cargo are also activ on the region del centro highway, especi in the la victoria-maracay area; the moron-coro road connect carabobo and falcon state; the valencia-Yaracuy road; and in area of caraca, such as francisco fajardo highway and between macaracuay and la guairita. robberi in the andean and western region, along which truck travel from colombia with food, textil, and other cargo, are becom increas common. cargo theft has also increas in Anzoátegui and Bolívar state. truck load with food, beverag, cattl, medicin, pharmaceut, white good and electron devic are the most like to be target.
nation guard offic in charg of port secur often set up impromptu road blo cks and cooper with crimin gang. import cargo is at risk from arbitrari seizur by the nation
guard and other offici entiti such as tax and custom agenc seniat upon be releas from sea port. import good must be accompani by multipl copi of document such as evid of the origin of the hard currenc use to pay for them. offici often claim the paperwork is inadequ in order to secur briberi payment. oil and servic compani import drill rig and other machineri have also been ask for commiss from port author.
delay to the import of good caus by bureaucrat hurdl can last week. inde, port congest has caus delay in the unload and return of contain. also, the lack of auto - part suppli due to the shortag of foreign currenc is also like to hurt cargo deliveri. the transport of cargo by road is also prone to sudden delay and road closur as a result of car accid and public protest. cargo associ state 20% of transport fleet had been affect over wave of protest that have taken place sinc mid -February 2014. road nationwid are poor maintain and vulner to landslid dure raini season. cargo truck involv in road accid will like be loot target.
strike & industri action
