a further repeat of nationwid agricultur protest is unlik dure 2014; busi disrupt for extract industri firm are like
19 may 2014
in august to septemb 2013, agricultur worker, join by other labour group i nclude miner and truck driver, establish roadblock, burnt vehicl and engag in confront
with the secur forc across the countri in protest against govern polici. a number of agricultur and mine group renew these protest in may 2014, these protest were concentr in Boyacá, huila, putumayo, cauca and santand. a repeat of these nationwid protest of the scale and intens as the mid-2013 protest is unlik in the one-year outlook given that the govern has ostens reach agreement with the labour group. that said, localis agricultur protest to demand the implement of agre polici are like to continu. in area of insurg presenc, there is an elev risk that member of the farc and eln will infiltr protest. infiltr protest are veri like to target extract industri cargo and infrastructur, specif oil tanker at roadblock. this will typic involv the burn the vehicl or the forc dump of their load.
social discont with the extract industri is increas and like to becom more disrupt in the next two year. protest are unlik to reach level seen in bolivia or peru but local communiti are demand more social invest in respons to colombia' s recent oil and mine boom. environment pollut is particular like to trigger protest. on 9 februari 2013, resid in Acacías, meta, block access to an oil drill site and set fire to an oil tanker and other vehicl, accord to state oil firm ecopetrol.
repeat protest are like to result in govern intervent. on 1 novemb 2013, anglo - australian mine firm bhp billiton's cerro matoso mine agre to provid indigen develop resourc follow repeat protest against pollut, includ a temporari occup of the mine, from the Zenú indigen communiti. in august 2012, the anm refus to extend the titl on 46% of eco oro's angostura concess follow sever year of opposit by environmentalist.
hydroelectr project - includ endesa's el quimbo project in huila and the hidroituango project in antioquia - are also like to face increas opposit result in delay and cancel over the next two year. risk are highest from environment -based protest against project locat near nation park or reserv.
in urban area, protest are common, particular in Bogotá . while the vast major are peac, protest can turn violent, involv the block of major arteri rout in citi, clash with secur forc and damag to surround properti. this is most like if protest are join by radic student group which have been known to deploy small i. in august 2013, presid santo order the militaris of Bogotá after protest involv thousand of peopl in support of the nation agricultur strike turn violent and two peopl were kill.
