daili brief: arson attack on state bank highlight increas vandal risk against govern asset amid ongo protest in venezuela
20 may 2014
peril: civil unrest
sector, asset, or individu affect: all sector
analysi: a high street retail branch of state-own banco del tesoro and a vehicl from nation oil compani pdvsa were the subject of arson attack yesterday (19 may) in the local of Lechería, diego bautista urbaneja municip in the eastern Anzoátegui state. univers student and civil societi group have been stage anti-govern protest sinc 4 februari, with 44 peopl - most of them protest - kill, more than 750 injur, and thousand arrest. the demonstr are against the shortag of food and basic good, record high inflat - which has reach an accumul annual rate of 59.3% - and the deterior of secur. opposit protest are predomin peac although minor group tend to stage roadblock and barricad, and violenc often erupt when the secur forc attempt to clear the road or dissolv peac protest. confront between the secur forc and protest typic involv the use of tear gas, molotov cocktail, stone, and firework. opposit protest do not normal target govern asset; the risk of properti damag is main deriv from act of vandal that tend to take place dure increas confront between the opposit and secur forc. when violenc escal protest have target govern properti - such as govern offic, vehicl, and occasion underground station, and state-own high street retail bank agenc - as a mean to vent their frustrat. accord to presid nicola maduro, at least 100 buse (metrobus) from the underground interconnect system have been burn by protest.
risk implic: the event highlight an increas risk of properti damag and vandal in the one-year outlook against govern properti and asset in commerci and residenti area nationwid. these risk are like to go in line with anti-govern protest, which are like to continu in the one-year outlook, but will vari in intens. it is import to note that opposit protest are not like to target privat and commerci asset although retail shop and car dealership can occasion be vandalis dure violent confront between secur forc and protest.
